In this notebook, we'll be defining and training an autoencoder.
So, as we talked about before,
an autoencoder is basically just a model where we pass in some original data,
for instance an image,
and then we compress it down to a smaller size.
This mapping from an original to a compressed image is learned.
An autoencoder will try to compress this image and then
reconstruct the original image from the compressed representation.
In this example, we'll be working with MNIST images,
where each image is a 28 by 28 by 1 array with a total number of 784 pixels.
Using an autoencoder, we can compress this down into
a smaller matrix or vector with a smaller number of values.
This compressed representation could be useful if we wanted to take up less space
on our hard drive or share a small data file over a social network or with a friend.
Compressed data is often cheaper to store in
data centers and faster to share across Wi-Fi connected devices.
So, what we're really interested in here,
is this compressed representation and
this more efficient way of storing our original image.
Once we have our compressed representation,
we can pass it through a decoder to reconstruct our original image.
In practice, autoencoders really aren't that good at
traditional image compression when compared to something like JPEGs.
But you'll find that their two-part structure of
an encoder and decoder will be really useful.
Autoencoders have found use in de-noising images,
which we'll get into in a later notebook.
So, here I'm going to get you started in implementing an autoencoder in Pytorch,
and you're actually going to build the network yourself.
The idea is that we define our encoder and decoder as neural networks.
Then we train this complete autoencoder by passing in
an original image and getting back as output a reconstructed image.
We can then compare the original with the reconstruction.
We want the original and reconstructed image to be as close as possible.
So, our loss will actually be comparing these pixel values
and measuring the difference between the original and reconstructed images.
Once this whole network is trained,
we should have a working encoder and decoder portion of a network,
and we'll be able to use either part to either compress or decompress a certain image.
So, first things first. I'm importing some of the libraries that we need.
Everything we need to load in and start working with our data.
Then, I'm going to load in training and test MNIST data.
I'll also transform this data into a tensor datatype.
Next, I'm going to batch up this data and use pytorch's data loader class.
You'll notice that I'm only defining train and test loaders here,
and that's because in this case I really just
want to get my training loss as low as possible.
This is not a typical classification task,
and validation sets are really most useful
when you're trying to predict a quantity like a class.
Next, I'm going to visualize just one of our images.
Again, this is a 28 by 28 by one tensor,
where one is the depth of the color channel.
This indicates a gray scale image.
So, this is an example of original data that we're going to be passing through a network,
and that's what we're going to be trying to compress and then reconstruct.
Next, we wanted to define the autoencoder network.
Here's a diagram of the network that we're going to build.
In this simple example,
we'll make an autoencoder out of linear layers.
Before we pass anything to our model,
we're going to flatten our input images from 28 by 28 into 784 long vectors.
We'll pass this flattened input into our encoder.
The encoder will just be one linear layer that sees
our input and produces a compressed representation.
The size of this representation will be a size that we specify.
This will be a parameter that you pass and encode,
called the encoding dim.
For example, we may specify that we want to compress representation with 32 values.
Then, this compressed representation will be fed as input into the decoder.
The decoder is responsible for forming a reconstructed image
and so its job is to essentially reverse the encoder operation.
This decoder will also be made of one linear layer that will
up sample or increase the dimension of the compressed representation.
We want this layer to output a vector of length 784.
Later, we'll reshape this vector output into a 28 by 28 reconstructed image,
and then we'll be able to compare these two.
So, in the code you should define these two layers making sure to
produce an encoded compressed vector of this encoding dim size.
You'll define these layers in the init function and apply
them to an input in the forward function of this autoencoder.
Now, in this forward function,
you'll want to apply a ReLU activation function
to every hidden layer except for the final layer.
The final output layer will have a sigmoid activation function to
scale its values to be grayscale pixel values between zero and one.
After defining the model you can instantiate it and afterwards train the network.
Try to create this autoencoder on your own,
and next I'll walk you through an example solution and show you how this model trains.